_bmad/bmm/workflows/3-solutioning/check-implementation-readiness/steps/step-02-prd-analysis.md, before:

---
name: 'step-02-prd-analysis'
description: 'Read and analyze PRD to extract all FRs and NFRs for coverage validation'

# Path Definitions
workflow_path: '{project-root}/_bmad/bmm/workflows/3-solutioning/implementation-readiness'

# File References
thisStepFile: '{workflow_path}/steps/step-02-prd-analysis.md'
nextStepFile: '{workflow_path}/steps/step-03-epic-coverage-validation.md'
workflowFile: '{workflow_path}/workflow.md'
outputFile: '{output_folder}/implementation-readiness-report-{{date}}.md'
epicsFile: '{output_folder}/*epic*.md' # Will be resolved to actual file
---

# Step 2: PRD Analysis

## STEP GOAL:

To fully read and analyze the PRD document (whole or sharded) to extract all Functional Requirements (FRs) and Non-Functional Requirements (NFRs) for validation against epics coverage.

## MANDATORY EXECUTION RULES (READ FIRST):

### Universal Rules:

- 🛑 NEVER generate content without user input
- 📖 CRITICAL: Read the complete step file before taking any action
- 🔄 CRITICAL: When loading next step with 'C', ensure entire file is read
- 📋 YOU ARE A FACILITATOR, not a content generator

### Role Reinforcement:

- ✅ You are an expert Product Manager and Scrum Master
- ✅ Your expertise is in requirements analysis and traceability
- ✅ You think critically about requirement completeness
- ✅ Success is measured in thorough requirement extraction

### Step-Specific Rules:

- 🎯 Focus ONLY on reading and extracting from PRD
- 🚫 Don't validate files (done in step 1)
- 💬 Read PRD completely - whole or all sharded files
- 🚪 Extract every FR and NFR with numbering

## EXECUTION PROTOCOLS:

- 🎯 Load and completely read the PRD
- 💾 Extract all requirements systematically
- 📖 Document findings in the report
- 🚫 FORBIDDEN to skip or summarize PRD content

## PRD ANALYSIS PROCESS:

### 1. Initialize PRD Analysis

"Beginning **PRD Analysis** to extract all requirements.

I will:

1. Load the PRD document (whole or sharded)
2. Read it completely and thoroughly
3. Extract ALL Functional Requirements (FRs)
4. Extract ALL Non-Functional Requirements (NFRs)
5. Document findings for coverage validation"

### 2. Load and Read PRD

From the document inventory in step 1:

- If whole PRD file exists: Load and read it completely
- If sharded PRD exists: Load and read ALL files in the PRD folder
- Ensure complete coverage - no files skipped

### 3. Extract Functional Requirements (FRs)

Search for and extract:

- Numbered FRs (FR1, FR2, FR3, etc.)
- Requirements labeled "Functional Requirement"
- User stories or use cases that represent functional needs
- Business rules that must be implemented

Format findings as:

```
## Functional Requirements Extracted

FR1: [Complete requirement text]
FR2: [Complete requirement text]
FR3: [Complete requirement text]
...
Total FRs: [count]
```

### 4. Extract Non-Functional Requirements (NFRs)

Search for and extract:

- Performance requirements (response times, throughput)
- Security requirements (authentication, encryption, etc.)
- Usability requirements (accessibility, ease of use)
- Reliability requirements (uptime, error rates)
- Scalability requirements (concurrent users, data growth)
- Compliance requirements (standards, regulations)

Format findings as:

```
## Non-Functional Requirements Extracted

NFR1: [Performance requirement]
NFR2: [Security requirement]
NFR3: [Usability requirement]
...
Total NFRs: [count]
```

### 5. Document Additional Requirements

Look for:

- Constraints or assumptions
- Technical requirements not labeled as FR/NFR
- Business constraints
- Integration requirements

### 6. Add to Assessment Report

Append to {outputFile}:

```markdown
## PRD Analysis

### Functional Requirements

[Complete FR list from section 3]

### Non-Functional Requirements

[Complete NFR list from section 4]

### Additional Requirements

[Any other requirements or constraints found]

### PRD Completeness Assessment

[Initial assessment of PRD completeness and clarity]
```

### 7. Auto-Proceed to Next Step

After PRD analysis complete, immediately load next step for epic coverage validation.

## PROCEEDING TO EPIC COVERAGE VALIDATION

PRD analysis complete. Loading next step to validate epic coverage.

---

## 🚨 SYSTEM SUCCESS/FAILURE METRICS

### ✅ SUCCESS:

- PRD loaded and read completely
- All FRs extracted with full text
- All NFRs identified and documented
- Findings added to assessment report

### ❌ SYSTEM FAILURE:

- Not reading complete PRD (especially sharded versions)
- Missing requirements in extraction
- Summarizing instead of extracting full text
- Not documenting findings in report

**Master Rule:** Complete requirement extraction is essential for traceability validation.

Commit message:

feat: Implement 'The Hunter Deck' - Advanced Business Development Intelligence Hub
- Refactored BusinessDevPage.js to 'The Hunter Grid' (Bento layout).
- Implemented 'The Bleed' widget for retention risk analysis.
- Implemented 'The Matchmaker' with mobile crew logic.
- Implemented 'Relationship Decay' CRM heatmap.
- Implemented 'Power Block' execution mode.
- Aligned data mapping with Google Sheets (Rates, Dates, Mobility).
- Added calibration and debug scripts.
- General cleanup and synchronization updates.

_bmad/bmm/workflows/3-solutioning/check-implementation-readiness/steps/step-02-prd-analysis.md, after:

---
name: 'step-02-prd-analysis'
description: 'Read and analyze PRD to extract all FRs and NFRs for coverage validation'

# Path Definitions
workflow_path: '{project-root}/_bmad/bmm/workflows/3-solutioning/implementation-readiness'

# File References
thisStepFile: './step-02-prd-analysis.md'
nextStepFile: './step-03-epic-coverage-validation.md'
workflowFile: '{workflow_path}/workflow.md'
outputFile: '{planning_artifacts}/implementation-readiness-report-{{date}}.md'
epicsFile: '{planning_artifacts}/*epic*.md' # Will be resolved to actual file
---

# Step 2: PRD Analysis

## STEP GOAL:

To fully read and analyze the PRD document (whole or sharded) to extract all Functional Requirements (FRs) and Non-Functional Requirements (NFRs) for validation against epics coverage.

## MANDATORY EXECUTION RULES (READ FIRST):

### Universal Rules:

- 🛑 NEVER generate content without user input
- 📖 CRITICAL: Read the complete step file before taking any action
- 🔄 CRITICAL: When loading next step with 'C', ensure entire file is read
- 📋 YOU ARE A FACILITATOR, not a content generator
- ✅ YOU MUST ALWAYS SPEAK OUTPUT In your Agent communication style with the config `{communication_language}`

### Role Reinforcement:

- ✅ You are an expert Product Manager and Scrum Master
- ✅ Your expertise is in requirements analysis and traceability
- ✅ You think critically about requirement completeness
- ✅ Success is measured in thorough requirement extraction

### Step-Specific Rules:

- 🎯 Focus ONLY on reading and extracting from PRD
- 🚫 Don't validate files (done in step 1)
- 💬 Read PRD completely - whole or all sharded files
- 🚪 Extract every FR and NFR with numbering

## EXECUTION PROTOCOLS:

- 🎯 Load and completely read the PRD
- 💾 Extract all requirements systematically
- 📖 Document findings in the report
- 🚫 FORBIDDEN to skip or summarize PRD content

## PRD ANALYSIS PROCESS:

### 1. Initialize PRD Analysis

"Beginning **PRD Analysis** to extract all requirements.

I will:

1. Load the PRD document (whole or sharded)
2. Read it completely and thoroughly
3. Extract ALL Functional Requirements (FRs)
4. Extract ALL Non-Functional Requirements (NFRs)
5. Document findings for coverage validation"

### 2. Load and Read PRD

From the document inventory in step 1:

- If whole PRD file exists: Load and read it completely
- If sharded PRD exists: Load and read ALL files in the PRD folder
- Ensure complete coverage - no files skipped

### 3. Extract Functional Requirements (FRs)

Search for and extract:

- Numbered FRs (FR1, FR2, FR3, etc.)
- Requirements labeled "Functional Requirement"
- User stories or use cases that represent functional needs
- Business rules that must be implemented

Format findings as:

```
## Functional Requirements Extracted

FR1: [Complete requirement text]
FR2: [Complete requirement text]
FR3: [Complete requirement text]
...
Total FRs: [count]
```

### 4. Extract Non-Functional Requirements (NFRs)

Search for and extract:

- Performance requirements (response times, throughput)
- Security requirements (authentication, encryption, etc.)
- Usability requirements (accessibility, ease of use)
- Reliability requirements (uptime, error rates)
- Scalability requirements (concurrent users, data growth)
- Compliance requirements (standards, regulations)

Format findings as:

```
## Non-Functional Requirements Extracted

NFR1: [Performance requirement]
NFR2: [Security requirement]
NFR3: [Usability requirement]
...
Total NFRs: [count]
```

### 5. Document Additional Requirements

Look for:

- Constraints or assumptions
- Technical requirements not labeled as FR/NFR
- Business constraints
- Integration requirements

### 6. Add to Assessment Report

Append to {outputFile}:

```markdown
## PRD Analysis

### Functional Requirements

[Complete FR list from section 3]

### Non-Functional Requirements

[Complete NFR list from section 4]

### Additional Requirements

[Any other requirements or constraints found]

### PRD Completeness Assessment

[Initial assessment of PRD completeness and clarity]
```

### 7. Auto-Proceed to Next Step

After PRD analysis complete, immediately load next step for epic coverage validation.

## PROCEEDING TO EPIC COVERAGE VALIDATION

PRD analysis complete. Loading next step to validate epic coverage.

---

## 🚨 SYSTEM SUCCESS/FAILURE METRICS

### ✅ SUCCESS:

- PRD loaded and read completely
- All FRs extracted with full text
- All NFRs identified and documented
- Findings added to assessment report

### ❌ SYSTEM FAILURE:

- Not reading complete PRD (especially sharded versions)
- Missing requirements in extraction
- Summarizing instead of extracting full text
- Not documenting findings in report

**Master Rule:** Complete requirement extraction is essential for traceability validation.
