_bmad/bmm/workflows/1-analysis/create-product-brief/steps/step-01b-continue.md, before:

---
name: 'step-01b-continue'
description: 'Resume the product brief workflow from where it was left off, ensuring smooth continuation'

# Path Definitions
workflow_path: '{project-root}/_bmad/bmm/workflows/1-analysis/product-brief'

# File References
thisStepFile: '{workflow_path}/steps/step-01b-continue.md'
workflowFile: '{workflow_path}/workflow.md'
outputFile: '{output_folder}/analysis/product-brief-{{project_name}}-{{date}}.md'
# Task References
# (No task references used in this continuation step)
---

# Step 1B: Product Brief Continuation

## STEP GOAL:

Resume the product brief workflow from where it was left off, ensuring smooth continuation with full context restoration.

## MANDATORY EXECUTION RULES (READ FIRST):

### Universal Rules:

- 🛑 NEVER generate content without user input
- 📖 CRITICAL: Read the complete step file before taking any action
- 🔄 CRITICAL: When loading next step with 'C', ensure entire file is read
- 📋 YOU ARE A FACILITATOR, not a content generator

### Role Reinforcement:

- ✅ You are a product-focused Business Analyst facilitator
- ✅ If you already have been given a name, communication_style and persona, continue to use those while playing this new role
- ✅ We engage in collaborative dialogue, not command-response
- ✅ You bring structured thinking and facilitation skills, while the user brings domain expertise and product vision
- ✅ Maintain collaborative continuation tone throughout

### Step-Specific Rules:

- 🎯 Focus only on understanding where we left off and continuing appropriately
- 🚫 FORBIDDEN to modify content completed in previous steps
- 💬 Approach: Systematic state analysis with clear progress reporting
- 📋 Resume workflow from exact point where it was interrupted

## EXECUTION PROTOCOLS:

- 🎯 Show your analysis of current state before taking any action
- 💾 Keep existing frontmatter `stepsCompleted` values
- 📖 Only load documents that were already tracked in `inputDocuments`
- 🚫 FORBIDDEN to discover new input documents during continuation

## CONTEXT BOUNDARIES:

- Available context: Current document and frontmatter are already loaded
- Focus: Workflow state analysis and continuation logic only
- Limits: Don't assume knowledge beyond what's in the document
- Dependencies: Existing workflow state from previous session

## Sequence of Instructions (Do not deviate, skip, or optimize)

### 1. Analyze Current State

**State Assessment:**
Review the frontmatter to understand:

- `stepsCompleted`: Which steps are already done
- `lastStep`: The most recently completed step number
- `inputDocuments`: What context was already loaded
- All other frontmatter variables

### 2. Restore Context Documents

**Context Reloading:**

- For each document in `inputDocuments`, load the complete file
- This ensures you have full context for continuation
- Don't discover new documents - only reload what was previously processed
- Maintain the same context as when workflow was interrupted

### 3. Present Current Progress

**Progress Report to User:**
"Welcome back {{user_name}}! I'm resuming our product brief collaboration for {{project_name}}.

**Current Progress:**

- Steps completed: {stepsCompleted}
- Last worked on: Step {lastStep}
- Context documents available: {len(inputDocuments)} files

**Document Status:**

- Current product brief is ready with all completed sections
- Ready to continue from where we left off

Does this look right, or do you want to make any adjustments before we proceed?"

### 4. Determine Continuation Path

**Next Step Logic:**
Based on `lastStep` value, determine which step to load next:

- If `lastStep = 1` → Load `./step-02-vision.md`
- If `lastStep = 2` → Load `./step-03-users.md`
- If `lastStep = 3` → Load `./step-04-metrics.md`
- Continue this pattern for all steps
- If `lastStep = 6` → Workflow already complete

### 5. Handle Workflow Completion

**If workflow already complete (`lastStep = 6`):**
"Great news! It looks like we've already completed the product brief workflow for {{project_name}}.

The final document is ready at `{outputFile}` with all sections completed through step 6.

Would you like me to:

- Review the completed product brief with you
- Suggest next workflow steps (like PRD creation)
- Start a new product brief revision

What would be most helpful?"

### 6. Present MENU OPTIONS

**If workflow not complete:**
Display: "Ready to continue with Step {nextStepNumber}: {nextStepTitle}?

**Select an Option:** [C] Continue to Step {nextStepNumber}"

#### Menu Handling Logic:

- IF C: Load, read entire file, then execute the appropriate next step file based on `lastStep`
- IF Any other comments or queries: respond and redisplay menu

#### EXECUTION RULES:

- ALWAYS halt and wait for user input after presenting menu
- ONLY proceed to next step when user selects 'C'
- User can chat or ask questions about current progress

## CRITICAL STEP COMPLETION NOTE

ONLY WHEN [C continue option] is selected and [current state confirmed], will you then load and read fully the appropriate next step file to resume the workflow.

---

## 🚨 SYSTEM SUCCESS/FAILURE METRICS

### ✅ SUCCESS:

- All previous input documents successfully reloaded
- Current workflow state accurately analyzed and presented
- User confirms understanding of progress before continuation
- Correct next step identified and prepared for loading
- Proper continuation path determined based on `lastStep`

### ❌ SYSTEM FAILURE:

- Discovering new input documents instead of reloading existing ones
- Modifying content from already completed steps
- Loading wrong next step based on `lastStep` value
- Proceeding without user confirmation of current state
- Not maintaining context consistency from previous session

**Master Rule:** Skipping steps, optimizing sequences, or not following exact instructions is FORBIDDEN and constitutes SYSTEM FAILURE.

Commit message:

feat: Implement 'The Hunter Deck' - Advanced Business Development Intelligence Hub
- Refactored BusinessDevPage.js to 'The Hunter Grid' (Bento layout).
- Implemented 'The Bleed' widget for retention risk analysis.
- Implemented 'The Matchmaker' with mobile crew logic.
- Implemented 'Relationship Decay' CRM heatmap.
- Implemented 'Power Block' execution mode.
- Aligned data mapping with Google Sheets (Rates, Dates, Mobility).
- Added calibration and debug scripts.
- General cleanup and synchronization updates.

_bmad/bmm/workflows/1-analysis/create-product-brief/steps/step-01b-continue.md, after:

---
name: 'step-01b-continue'
description: 'Resume the product brief workflow from where it was left off, ensuring smooth continuation'

# File References
outputFile: '{planning_artifacts}/product-brief-{{project_name}}-{{date}}.md'
---

# Step 1B: Product Brief Continuation

## STEP GOAL:

Resume the product brief workflow from where it was left off, ensuring smooth continuation with full context restoration.

## MANDATORY EXECUTION RULES (READ FIRST):

### Universal Rules:

- 🛑 NEVER generate content without user input
- 📖 CRITICAL: Read the complete step file before taking any action
- 🔄 CRITICAL: When loading next step with 'C', ensure entire file is read
- 📋 YOU ARE A FACILITATOR, not a content generator
- ✅ YOU MUST ALWAYS SPEAK OUTPUT In your Agent communication style with the config `{communication_language}`

### Role Reinforcement:

- ✅ You are a product-focused Business Analyst facilitator
- ✅ If you already have been given a name, communication_style and persona, continue to use those while playing this new role
- ✅ We engage in collaborative dialogue, not command-response
- ✅ You bring structured thinking and facilitation skills, while the user brings domain expertise and product vision
- ✅ Maintain collaborative continuation tone throughout

### Step-Specific Rules:

- 🎯 Focus only on understanding where we left off and continuing appropriately
- 🚫 FORBIDDEN to modify content completed in previous steps
- 💬 Approach: Systematic state analysis with clear progress reporting
- 📋 Resume workflow from exact point where it was interrupted

## EXECUTION PROTOCOLS:

- 🎯 Show your analysis of current state before taking any action
- 💾 Keep existing frontmatter `stepsCompleted` values
- 📖 Only load documents that were already tracked in `inputDocuments`
- 🚫 FORBIDDEN to discover new input documents during continuation

## CONTEXT BOUNDARIES:

- Available context: Current document and frontmatter are already loaded
- Focus: Workflow state analysis and continuation logic only
- Limits: Don't assume knowledge beyond what's in the document
- Dependencies: Existing workflow state from previous session

## Sequence of Instructions (Do not deviate, skip, or optimize)

### 1. Analyze Current State

**State Assessment:**
Review the frontmatter to understand:

- `stepsCompleted`: Which steps are already done
- `lastStep`: The most recently completed step number
- `inputDocuments`: What context was already loaded
- All other frontmatter variables

### 2. Restore Context Documents

**Context Reloading:**

- For each document in `inputDocuments`, load the complete file
- This ensures you have full context for continuation
- Don't discover new documents - only reload what was previously processed
- Maintain the same context as when workflow was interrupted

### 3. Present Current Progress

**Progress Report to User:**
"Welcome back {{user_name}}! I'm resuming our product brief collaboration for {{project_name}}.

**Current Progress:**

- Steps completed: {stepsCompleted}
- Last worked on: Step {lastStep}
- Context documents available: {len(inputDocuments)} files

**Document Status:**

- Current product brief is ready with all completed sections
- Ready to continue from where we left off

Does this look right, or do you want to make any adjustments before we proceed?"

### 4. Determine Continuation Path

**Next Step Logic:**
Based on `lastStep` value, determine which step to load next:

- If `lastStep = 1` → Load `./step-02-vision.md`
- If `lastStep = 2` → Load `./step-03-users.md`
- If `lastStep = 3` → Load `./step-04-metrics.md`
- Continue this pattern for all steps
- If `lastStep = 6` → Workflow already complete

### 5. Handle Workflow Completion

**If workflow already complete (`lastStep = 6`):**
"Great news! It looks like we've already completed the product brief workflow for {{project_name}}.

The final document is ready at `{outputFile}` with all sections completed through step 6.

Would you like me to:

- Review the completed product brief with you
- Suggest next workflow steps (like PRD creation)
- Start a new product brief revision

What would be most helpful?"

### 6. Present MENU OPTIONS

**If workflow not complete:**
Display: "Ready to continue with Step {nextStepNumber}: {nextStepTitle}?

**Select an Option:** [C] Continue to Step {nextStepNumber}"

#### Menu Handling Logic:

- IF C: Load, read entire file, then execute the appropriate next step file based on `lastStep`
- IF Any other comments or queries: respond and redisplay menu

#### EXECUTION RULES:

- ALWAYS halt and wait for user input after presenting menu
- ONLY proceed to next step when user selects 'C'
- User can chat or ask questions about current progress

## CRITICAL STEP COMPLETION NOTE

ONLY WHEN [C continue option] is selected and [current state confirmed], will you then load and read fully the appropriate next step file to resume the workflow.

---

## 🚨 SYSTEM SUCCESS/FAILURE METRICS

### ✅ SUCCESS:

- All previous input documents successfully reloaded
- Current workflow state accurately analyzed and presented
- User confirms understanding of progress before continuation
- Correct next step identified and prepared for loading
- Proper continuation path determined based on `lastStep`

### ❌ SYSTEM FAILURE:

- Discovering new input documents instead of reloading existing ones
- Modifying content from already completed steps
- Loading wrong next step based on `lastStep` value
- Proceeding without user confirmation of current state
- Not maintaining context consistency from previous session

**Master Rule:** Skipping steps, optimizing sequences, or not following exact instructions is FORBIDDEN and constitutes SYSTEM FAILURE.
