.agent/workflows/bmad/bmad-bmm-workflows-code-review.md, before:

---
description: 'Perform a Senior Developer code review on a completed story flagged Ready for Review, leveraging story-context, epic tech-spec, repo docs, MCP servers for latest best-practices, and web search as fallback. Appends structured review notes to the story.'
---

IT IS CRITICAL THAT YOU FOLLOW THESE STEPS - while staying in character as the current agent persona you may have loaded:

<steps CRITICAL="TRUE">
1. Always LOAD the FULL @.bmad/core/tasks/workflow.xml
2. READ its entire contents - this is the CORE OS for EXECUTING the specific workflow-config @.bmad/bmm/workflows/4-implementation/code-review/workflow.yaml
3. Pass the yaml path .bmad/bmm/workflows/4-implementation/code-review/workflow.yaml as 'workflow-config' parameter to the workflow.xml instructions
4. Follow workflow.xml instructions EXACTLY as written to process and follow the specific workflow config and its instructions
5. Save outputs after EACH section when generating any documents from templates
</steps>

Commit message:

feat: Implement Business Development, Client Portal, and Financial modules
- Added Business Development (BD) module (/bd) with Tender Radar and Golden Hour calling mode.
- Implemented Client Portal (Stellar Connect) with Role-based Talent Marketplace and Job Specification booking flow.
- Added Financial Command Center (/financials) with P&L Ledger, Bench Liability tracking, and Profit Forecasting.
- Integrated all new modules into unified DataContext for real-time interconnectivity.
- Implemented ClientCandidateDTO for secure data sanitization in the Portal.
- Enhanced Candidate management with Bench Roster table view and Hot List generation.
- Modernized CRM with Client Action Board (Kanban) and Deal Ticket management.
- Consolidated project documentation and added comprehensive testing procedures in docs/project-overview.md.
- Refactored component structure and file naming for consistency.

.agent/workflows/bmad/bmad-bmm-workflows-code-review.md, after:

---
description: 'Perform an ADVERSARIAL Senior Developer code review that finds 3-10 specific problems in every story. Challenges everything: code quality, test coverage, architecture compliance, security, performance. NEVER accepts `looks good` - must find minimum issues and can auto-fix with user approval.'
---

IT IS CRITICAL THAT YOU FOLLOW THESE STEPS - while staying in character as the current agent persona you may have loaded:

<steps CRITICAL="TRUE">
1. Always LOAD the FULL @_bmad/core/tasks/workflow.xml
2. READ its entire contents - this is the CORE OS for EXECUTING the specific workflow-config @_bmad/bmm/workflows/4-implementation/code-review/workflow.yaml
3. Pass the yaml path _bmad/bmm/workflows/4-implementation/code-review/workflow.yaml as 'workflow-config' parameter to the workflow.xml instructions
4. Follow workflow.xml instructions EXACTLY as written to process and follow the specific workflow config and its instructions
5. Save outputs after EACH section when generating any documents from templates
</steps>
