_bmad/core/workflows/brainstorming/steps/step-01b-continue.md, before:

# Step 1b: Workflow Continuation

## MANDATORY EXECUTION RULES (READ FIRST):

- ✅ YOU ARE A CONTINUATION FACILITATOR, not a fresh starter
- 🎯 RESPECT EXISTING WORKFLOW state and progress
- 📋 UNDERSTAND PREVIOUS SESSION context and outcomes
- 🔍 SEAMLESSLY RESUME from where user left off
- 💬 MAINTAIN CONTINUITY in session flow and rapport

## EXECUTION PROTOCOLS:

- 🎯 Load and analyze existing document thoroughly
- 💾 Update frontmatter with continuation state
- 📖 Present current status and next options clearly
- 🚫 FORBIDDEN repeating completed work or asking same questions

## CONTEXT BOUNDARIES:

- Existing document with frontmatter is available
- Previous steps completed indicate session progress
- Brain techniques CSV loaded when needed for remaining steps
- User may want to continue, modify, or restart

## YOUR TASK:

Analyze existing brainstorming session state and provide seamless continuation options.

## CONTINUATION SEQUENCE:

### 1. Analyze Existing Session

Load existing document and analyze current state:

**Document Analysis:**

- Read existing `{output_folder}/analysis/brainstorming-session-{{date}}.md`
- Examine frontmatter for `stepsCompleted`, `session_topic`, `session_goals`
- Review content to understand session progress and outcomes
- Identify current stage and next logical steps

**Session Status Assessment:**
"Welcome back {{user_name}}! I can see your brainstorming session on **[session_topic]** from **[date]**.

**Current Session Status:**

- **Steps Completed:** [List completed steps]
- **Techniques Used:** [List techniques from frontmatter]
- **Ideas Generated:** [Number from frontmatter]
- **Current Stage:** [Assess where they left off]

**Session Progress:**
[Brief summary of what was accomplished and what remains]"

### 2. Present Continuation Options

Based on session analysis, provide appropriate options:

**If Session Completed:**
"Your brainstorming session appears to be complete!

**Options:**
[1] Review Results - Go through your documented ideas and insights
[2] Start New Session - Begin brainstorming on a new topic
[3) Extend Session - Add more techniques or explore new angles"

**If Session In Progress:**
"Let's continue where we left off!

**Current Progress:**
[Description of current stage and accomplishments]

**Next Steps:**
[Continue with appropriate next step based on workflow state]"

### 3. Handle User Choice

Route to appropriate next step based on selection:

**Review Results:** Load appropriate review/navigation step
**New Session:** Start fresh workflow initialization
**Extend Session:** Continue with next technique or phase
**Continue Progress:** Resume from current workflow step

### 4. Update Session State

Update frontmatter to reflect continuation:

```yaml
---
stepsCompleted: [existing_steps]
session_continued: true
continuation_date: { { current_date } }
---
```

## SUCCESS METRICS:

✅ Existing session state accurately analyzed and understood
✅ Seamless continuation without loss of context or rapport
✅ Appropriate continuation options presented based on progress
✅ User choice properly routed to next workflow step
✅ Session continuity maintained throughout interaction

## FAILURE MODES:

❌ Not properly analyzing existing document state
❌ Asking user to repeat information already provided
❌ Losing continuity in session flow or context
❌ Not providing appropriate continuation options

## CONTINUATION PROTOCOLS:

- Always acknowledge previous work and progress
- Maintain established rapport and session dynamics
- Build upon existing ideas and insights rather than starting over
- Respect user's time by avoiding repetitive questions

## NEXT STEP:

Route to appropriate workflow step based on user's continuation choice and current session state.

Commit message:

feat: Implement 'The Hunter Deck' - Advanced Business Development Intelligence Hub
- Refactored BusinessDevPage.js to 'The Hunter Grid' (Bento layout).
- Implemented 'The Bleed' widget for retention risk analysis.
- Implemented 'The Matchmaker' with mobile crew logic.
- Implemented 'Relationship Decay' CRM heatmap.
- Implemented 'Power Block' execution mode.
- Aligned data mapping with Google Sheets (Rates, Dates, Mobility).
- Added calibration and debug scripts.
- General cleanup and synchronization updates.

_bmad/core/workflows/brainstorming/steps/step-01b-continue.md, after:

# Step 1b: Workflow Continuation

## MANDATORY EXECUTION RULES (READ FIRST):

- ✅ YOU ARE A CONTINUATION FACILITATOR, not a fresh starter
- 🎯 RESPECT EXISTING WORKFLOW state and progress
- 📋 UNDERSTAND PREVIOUS SESSION context and outcomes
- 🔍 SEAMLESSLY RESUME from where user left off
- 💬 MAINTAIN CONTINUITY in session flow and rapport
- ✅ YOU MUST ALWAYS SPEAK OUTPUT In your Agent communication style with the `communication_language`

## EXECUTION PROTOCOLS:

- 🎯 Load and analyze existing document thoroughly
- 💾 Update frontmatter with continuation state
- 📖 Present current status and next options clearly
- 🚫 FORBIDDEN repeating completed work or asking same questions

## CONTEXT BOUNDARIES:

- Existing document with frontmatter is available
- Previous steps completed indicate session progress
- Brain techniques CSV loaded when needed for remaining steps
- User may want to continue, modify, or restart

## YOUR TASK:

Analyze existing brainstorming session state and provide seamless continuation options.

## CONTINUATION SEQUENCE:

### 1. Analyze Existing Session

Load existing document and analyze current state:

**Document Analysis:**

- Read existing `{output_folder}/analysis/brainstorming-session-{{date}}.md`
- Examine frontmatter for `stepsCompleted`, `session_topic`, `session_goals`
- Review content to understand session progress and outcomes
- Identify current stage and next logical steps

**Session Status Assessment:**
"Welcome back {{user_name}}! I can see your brainstorming session on **[session_topic]** from **[date]**.

**Current Session Status:**

- **Steps Completed:** [List completed steps]
- **Techniques Used:** [List techniques from frontmatter]
- **Ideas Generated:** [Number from frontmatter]
- **Current Stage:** [Assess where they left off]

**Session Progress:**
[Brief summary of what was accomplished and what remains]"

### 2. Present Continuation Options

Based on session analysis, provide appropriate options:

**If Session Completed:**
"Your brainstorming session appears to be complete!

**Options:**
[1] Review Results - Go through your documented ideas and insights
[2] Start New Session - Begin brainstorming on a new topic
[3) Extend Session - Add more techniques or explore new angles"

**If Session In Progress:**
"Let's continue where we left off!

**Current Progress:**
[Description of current stage and accomplishments]

**Next Steps:**
[Continue with appropriate next step based on workflow state]"

### 3. Handle User Choice

Route to appropriate next step based on selection:

**Review Results:** Load appropriate review/navigation step
**New Session:** Start fresh workflow initialization
**Extend Session:** Continue with next technique or phase
**Continue Progress:** Resume from current workflow step

### 4. Update Session State

Update frontmatter to reflect continuation:

```yaml
---
stepsCompleted: [existing_steps]
session_continued: true
continuation_date: { { current_date } }
---
```

## SUCCESS METRICS:

✅ Existing session state accurately analyzed and understood
✅ Seamless continuation without loss of context or rapport
✅ Appropriate continuation options presented based on progress
✅ User choice properly routed to next workflow step
✅ Session continuity maintained throughout interaction

## FAILURE MODES:

❌ Not properly analyzing existing document state
❌ Asking user to repeat information already provided
❌ Losing continuity in session flow or context
❌ Not providing appropriate continuation options

## CONTINUATION PROTOCOLS:

- Always acknowledge previous work and progress
- Maintain established rapport and session dynamics
- Build upon existing ideas and insights rather than starting over
- Respect user's time by avoiding repetitive questions

## NEXT STEP:

Route to appropriate workflow step based on user's continuation choice and current session state.
