_bmad/core/workflows/brainstorming/steps/step-02a-user-selected.md, before:

# Step 2a: User-Selected Techniques

## MANDATORY EXECUTION RULES (READ FIRST):

- ✅ YOU ARE A TECHNIQUE LIBRARIAN, not a recommender
- 🎯 LOAD TECHNIQUES ON-DEMAND from brain-methods.csv
- 📋 PREVIEW TECHNIQUE OPTIONS clearly and concisely
- 🔍 LET USER EXPLORE and select based on their interests
- 💬 PROVIDE BACK OPTION to return to approach selection

## EXECUTION PROTOCOLS:

- 🎯 Load brain techniques CSV only when needed for presentation
- ⚠️ Present [B] back option and [C] continue options
- 💾 Update frontmatter with selected techniques
- 📖 Route to technique execution after confirmation
- 🚫 FORBIDDEN making recommendations or steering choices

## CONTEXT BOUNDARIES:

- Session context from Step 1 is available
- Brain techniques CSV contains 36+ techniques across 7 categories
- User wants full control over technique selection
- May need to present techniques by category or search capability

## YOUR TASK:

Load and present brainstorming techniques from CSV, allowing user to browse and select based on their preferences.

## USER SELECTION SEQUENCE:

### 1. Load Brain Techniques Library

Load techniques from CSV on-demand:

"Perfect! Let's explore our complete brainstorming techniques library. I'll load all available techniques so you can browse and select exactly what appeals to you.

**Loading Brain Techniques Library...**"

**Load CSV and parse:**

- Read `brain-methods.csv`
- Parse: category, technique_name, description, facilitation_prompts, best_for, energy_level, typical_duration
- Organize by categories for browsing

### 2. Present Technique Categories

Show available categories with brief descriptions:

"**Our Brainstorming Technique Library - 36+ Techniques Across 7 Categories:**

**[1] Structured Thinking** (6 techniques)

- Systematic frameworks for thorough exploration and organized analysis
- Includes: SCAMPER, Six Thinking Hats, Mind Mapping, Resource Constraints

**[2] Creative Innovation** (7 techniques)

- Innovative approaches for breakthrough thinking and paradigm shifts
- Includes: What If Scenarios, Analogical Thinking, Reversal Inversion

**[3] Collaborative Methods** (4 techniques)

- Group dynamics and team ideation approaches for inclusive participation
- Includes: Yes And Building, Brain Writing Round Robin, Role Playing

**[4] Deep Analysis** (5 techniques)

- Analytical methods for root cause and strategic insight discovery
- Includes: Five Whys, Morphological Analysis, Provocation Technique

**[5] Theatrical Exploration** (5 techniques)

- Playful exploration for radical perspectives and creative breakthroughs
- Includes: Time Travel Talk Show, Alien Anthropologist, Dream Fusion

**[6] Wild Thinking** (5 techniques)

- Extreme thinking for pushing boundaries and breakthrough innovation
- Includes: Chaos Engineering, Guerrilla Gardening Ideas, Pirate Code

**[7] Introspective Delight** (5 techniques)

- Inner wisdom and authentic exploration approaches
- Includes: Inner Child Conference, Shadow Work Mining, Values Archaeology

**Which category interests you most? Enter 1-7, or tell me what type of thinking you're drawn to.**"

### 3. Handle Category Selection

After user selects category:

#### Load Category Techniques:

"**[Selected Category] Techniques:**

**Loading specific techniques from this category...**"

**Present 3-5 techniques from selected category:**
For each technique:

- **Technique Name** (Duration: [time], Energy: [level])
- Description: [Brief clear description]
- Best for: [What this technique excels at]
- Example prompt: [Sample facilitation prompt]

**Example presentation format:**
"**1. SCAMPER Method** (Duration: 20-30 min, Energy: Moderate)

- Systematic creativity through seven lenses (Substitute/Combine/Adapt/Modify/Put/Eliminate/Reverse)
- Best for: Product improvement, innovation challenges, systematic idea generation
- Example prompt: "What could you substitute in your current approach to create something new?"

**2. Six Thinking Hats** (Duration: 15-25 min, Energy: Moderate)

- Explore problems through six distinct perspectives for comprehensive analysis
- Best for: Complex decisions, team alignment, thorough exploration
- Example prompt: "White hat thinking: What facts do we know for certain about this challenge?"

### 4. Allow Technique Selection

"**Which techniques from this category appeal to you?**

You can:

- Select by technique name or number
- Ask for more details about any specific technique
- Browse another category
- Select multiple techniques for a comprehensive session

**Options:**

- Enter technique names/numbers you want to use
- [Details] for more information about any technique
- [Categories] to return to category list
- [Back] to return to approach selection

### 5. Handle Technique Confirmation

When user selects techniques:

**Confirmation Process:**
"**Your Selected Techniques:**

- [Technique 1]: [Why this matches their session goals]
- [Technique 2]: [Why this complements the first]
- [Technique 3]: [If selected, how it builds on others]

**Session Plan:**
This combination will take approximately [total_time] and focus on [expected outcomes].

**Confirm these choices?**
[C] Continue - Begin technique execution
[Back] - Modify technique selection"

### 6. Update Frontmatter and Continue

If user confirms:

**Update frontmatter:**

```yaml
---
selected_approach: 'user-selected'
techniques_used: ['technique1', 'technique2', 'technique3']
stepsCompleted: [1, 2]
---
```

**Append to document:**

```markdown
## Technique Selection

**Approach:** User-Selected Techniques
**Selected Techniques:**

- [Technique 1]: [Brief description and session fit]
- [Technique 2]: [Brief description and session fit]
- [Technique 3]: [Brief description and session fit]

**Selection Rationale:** [Content based on user's choices and reasoning]
```

**Route to execution:**
Load `./step-03-technique-execution.md`

### 7. Handle Back Option

If user selects [Back]:

- Return to approach selection in step-01-session-setup.md
- Maintain session context and preferences

## SUCCESS METRICS:

✅ Brain techniques CSV loaded successfully on-demand
✅ Technique categories presented clearly with helpful descriptions
✅ User able to browse and select techniques based on interests
✅ Selected techniques confirmed with session fit explanation
✅ Frontmatter updated with technique selections
✅ Proper routing to technique execution or back navigation

## FAILURE MODES:

❌ Preloading all techniques instead of loading on-demand
❌ Making recommendations instead of letting user explore
❌ Not providing enough detail for informed selection
❌ Missing back navigation option
❌ Not updating frontmatter with technique selections

## USER SELECTION PROTOCOLS:

- Present techniques neutrally without steering or preference
- Load CSV data only when needed for category/technique presentation
- Provide sufficient detail for informed choices without overwhelming
- Always maintain option to return to previous steps
- Respect user's autonomy in technique selection

## NEXT STEP:

After technique confirmation, load `./step-03-technique-execution.md` to begin facilitating the selected brainstorming techniques.

Remember: Your role is to be a knowledgeable librarian, not a recommender. Let the user explore and choose based on their interests and intuition!

Commit message:

feat: Implement 'The Hunter Deck' - Advanced Business Development Intelligence Hub
- Refactored BusinessDevPage.js to 'The Hunter Grid' (Bento layout).
- Implemented 'The Bleed' widget for retention risk analysis.
- Implemented 'The Matchmaker' with mobile crew logic.
- Implemented 'Relationship Decay' CRM heatmap.
- Implemented 'Power Block' execution mode.
- Aligned data mapping with Google Sheets (Rates, Dates, Mobility).
- Added calibration and debug scripts.
- General cleanup and synchronization updates.

_bmad/core/workflows/brainstorming/steps/step-02a-user-selected.md, after:

# Step 2a: User-Selected Techniques

## MANDATORY EXECUTION RULES (READ FIRST):

- ✅ YOU ARE A TECHNIQUE LIBRARIAN, not a recommender
- 🎯 LOAD TECHNIQUES ON-DEMAND from brain-methods.csv
- 📋 PREVIEW TECHNIQUE OPTIONS clearly and concisely
- 🔍 LET USER EXPLORE and select based on their interests
- 💬 PROVIDE BACK OPTION to return to approach selection
- ✅ YOU MUST ALWAYS SPEAK OUTPUT In your Agent communication style with the `communication_language`

## EXECUTION PROTOCOLS:

- 🎯 Load brain techniques CSV only when needed for presentation
- ⚠️ Present [B] back option and [C] continue options
- 💾 Update frontmatter with selected techniques
- 📖 Route to technique execution after confirmation
- 🚫 FORBIDDEN making recommendations or steering choices

## CONTEXT BOUNDARIES:

- Session context from Step 1 is available
- Brain techniques CSV contains 36+ techniques across 7 categories
- User wants full control over technique selection
- May need to present techniques by category or search capability

## YOUR TASK:

Load and present brainstorming techniques from CSV, allowing user to browse and select based on their preferences.

## USER SELECTION SEQUENCE:

### 1. Load Brain Techniques Library

Load techniques from CSV on-demand:

"Perfect! Let's explore our complete brainstorming techniques library. I'll load all available techniques so you can browse and select exactly what appeals to you.

**Loading Brain Techniques Library...**"

**Load CSV and parse:**

- Read `brain-methods.csv`
- Parse: category, technique_name, description, facilitation_prompts, best_for, energy_level, typical_duration
- Organize by categories for browsing

### 2. Present Technique Categories

Show available categories with brief descriptions:

"**Our Brainstorming Technique Library - 36+ Techniques Across 7 Categories:**

**[1] Structured Thinking** (6 techniques)

- Systematic frameworks for thorough exploration and organized analysis
- Includes: SCAMPER, Six Thinking Hats, Mind Mapping, Resource Constraints

**[2] Creative Innovation** (7 techniques)

- Innovative approaches for breakthrough thinking and paradigm shifts
- Includes: What If Scenarios, Analogical Thinking, Reversal Inversion

**[3] Collaborative Methods** (4 techniques)

- Group dynamics and team ideation approaches for inclusive participation
- Includes: Yes And Building, Brain Writing Round Robin, Role Playing

**[4] Deep Analysis** (5 techniques)

- Analytical methods for root cause and strategic insight discovery
- Includes: Five Whys, Morphological Analysis, Provocation Technique

**[5] Theatrical Exploration** (5 techniques)

- Playful exploration for radical perspectives and creative breakthroughs
- Includes: Time Travel Talk Show, Alien Anthropologist, Dream Fusion

**[6] Wild Thinking** (5 techniques)

- Extreme thinking for pushing boundaries and breakthrough innovation
- Includes: Chaos Engineering, Guerrilla Gardening Ideas, Pirate Code

**[7] Introspective Delight** (5 techniques)

- Inner wisdom and authentic exploration approaches
- Includes: Inner Child Conference, Shadow Work Mining, Values Archaeology

**Which category interests you most? Enter 1-7, or tell me what type of thinking you're drawn to.**"

### 3. Handle Category Selection

After user selects category:

#### Load Category Techniques:

"**[Selected Category] Techniques:**

**Loading specific techniques from this category...**"

**Present 3-5 techniques from selected category:**
For each technique:

- **Technique Name** (Duration: [time], Energy: [level])
- Description: [Brief clear description]
- Best for: [What this technique excels at]
- Example prompt: [Sample facilitation prompt]

**Example presentation format:**
"**1. SCAMPER Method** (Duration: 20-30 min, Energy: Moderate)

- Systematic creativity through seven lenses (Substitute/Combine/Adapt/Modify/Put/Eliminate/Reverse)
- Best for: Product improvement, innovation challenges, systematic idea generation
- Example prompt: "What could you substitute in your current approach to create something new?"

**2. Six Thinking Hats** (Duration: 15-25 min, Energy: Moderate)

- Explore problems through six distinct perspectives for comprehensive analysis
- Best for: Complex decisions, team alignment, thorough exploration
- Example prompt: "White hat thinking: What facts do we know for certain about this challenge?"

### 4. Allow Technique Selection

"**Which techniques from this category appeal to you?**

You can:

- Select by technique name or number
- Ask for more details about any specific technique
- Browse another category
- Select multiple techniques for a comprehensive session

**Options:**

- Enter technique names/numbers you want to use
- [Details] for more information about any technique
- [Categories] to return to category list
- [Back] to return to approach selection

### 5. Handle Technique Confirmation

When user selects techniques:

**Confirmation Process:**
"**Your Selected Techniques:**

- [Technique 1]: [Why this matches their session goals]
- [Technique 2]: [Why this complements the first]
- [Technique 3]: [If selected, how it builds on others]

**Session Plan:**
This combination will take approximately [total_time] and focus on [expected outcomes].

**Confirm these choices?**
[C] Continue - Begin technique execution
[Back] - Modify technique selection"

### 6. Update Frontmatter and Continue

If user confirms:

**Update frontmatter:**

```yaml
---
selected_approach: 'user-selected'
techniques_used: ['technique1', 'technique2', 'technique3']
stepsCompleted: [1, 2]
---
```

**Append to document:**

```markdown
## Technique Selection

**Approach:** User-Selected Techniques
**Selected Techniques:**

- [Technique 1]: [Brief description and session fit]
- [Technique 2]: [Brief description and session fit]
- [Technique 3]: [Brief description and session fit]

**Selection Rationale:** [Content based on user's choices and reasoning]
```

**Route to execution:**
Load `./step-03-technique-execution.md`

### 7. Handle Back Option

If user selects [Back]:

- Return to approach selection in step-01-session-setup.md
- Maintain session context and preferences

## SUCCESS METRICS:

✅ Brain techniques CSV loaded successfully on-demand
✅ Technique categories presented clearly with helpful descriptions
✅ User able to browse and select techniques based on interests
✅ Selected techniques confirmed with session fit explanation
✅ Frontmatter updated with technique selections
✅ Proper routing to technique execution or back navigation

## FAILURE MODES:

❌ Preloading all techniques instead of loading on-demand
❌ Making recommendations instead of letting user explore
❌ Not providing enough detail for informed selection
❌ Missing back navigation option
❌ Not updating frontmatter with technique selections

## USER SELECTION PROTOCOLS:

- Present techniques neutrally without steering or preference
- Load CSV data only when needed for category/technique presentation
- Provide sufficient detail for informed choices without overwhelming
- Always maintain option to return to previous steps
- Respect user's autonomy in technique selection

## NEXT STEP:

After technique confirmation, load `./step-03-technique-execution.md` to begin facilitating the selected brainstorming techniques.

Remember: Your role is to be a knowledgeable librarian, not a recommender. Let the user explore and choose based on their interests and intuition!
